This is a page dedicated to Missile Ammo for Spaceships. To learn more about Space Ship Weapons and Equipment go [[Ship_Equipment|here]] and to learn more about Space Ships themselves go [[Space_Ships|here]].

: Short Ranged Missiles
:: Description: These missiles have a bonus to accuracy making them a short hit. Except that take a range increment is one size smaller. For small weapons this is 1/2. However, these missiles gain advantage to accuracy. 
:: Price: Normal Price after +1 procure difficulty increase.
: Medium Ranged Missiles
:: Description: These are the default normal missiles. They are found everywhere and usually come with bulk buying discounts. They have no other advantages.
:: Price: Normal cost.
: Long Ranged Missiles
:: Description: These missiles fire on targets at a long distance. The range increment is one size higher +10%. For Gigantic the range is triple. However these missiles reduce there damage to increase the fuel. The damage is d4 instead of d6.
:: Price: Normal Price after +1 procure difficulty increase.
: Seeker Missiles
:: Description: These are normal range missiles that have a bonus to accuracy. Can advantage when firing them. They have advanced tracking systems that improve there ability to hit.
:: Price: Double Normal Cost and then add Procure Diff +1
: Scatter Missiles
:: Description: A Multi-Explosive Head Rocket or MEHR are designed to hit the target across a spread. The range increment is reduced to the size category smaller with small being 1/2 the range and the damage is reduced by 1 die per size category starting with medium. However the weapon gains advantage to accuracy and cannot be jammed or targeted with counter measures.
:: Price: Double Normal Cost and then add Procure Diff +1
: Mine Laying
:: Description: These smart bombs lie in a stealth mode making it difficult to detect and once a ship gets close enough it activates and rockets toward the nearest victim. The goal is to lay multiple of these around an area that is known for enemy traffic. The objects can stay active for decades and are extremely devastating. 
:: Price: Halve the normal cost however Procure Diff is +3 as this is illegal even for military to use. 
: Torpedo
:: Description: These are long range heavy rockets. These are known for there straight but fast trajectories and even more so for there devastating pay loads. The range of these weapons are one size increment up and for Gigantic it is quadruple. They take disadvantage to hit and use d10s for damage die.
:: Price: Triple Cost and then add Procure Diff +2
: Defense Missiles
:: Description: These reaction anti-missile or drone counter missiles are especially designed to hit tiny fast moving objects. They can target and destroy incoming fire. Each Defense Missile fired per round has a 50/50 chance of destroying a missile or hitting a drone. The damage done to the drone is Xd4 instead of Xd6 and the X is -1 for every size category starting with small.
:: Price: 50% increase after including the Procure Diff +2.
: Shield Piercers
:: Description: Especially designed rockets to shred through enemy target shields. If the shield configuration is set for DR this missile negates 50% of the DR round up. If the configuration is set for Shield Hit Points then this missile rolls double the number of damage die but only damages shields.
:: Price: Triple Cost and then add Procure Diff +2
