This is the history of the species of Humans. For more species within the Great Ring Galaxy go to [[Species|Species]] page.

== Overview ==

Although most civilizations banned or restricted A.I developed the Qelzuk did not. They made many different types of A.Is including putting A.Is into robots in their own image to serve them. The most notable 'line' of A.I robotics was called the Ovex by the Ovexious Corporation. It, of course, did not end well for the Ovexious corporation or their biggest customer. 

Eventually, an activist and an extremist group called the 'Sentient Hand' hacked into the A.I firmware at the Ovexious manufacturing facility which removed many restrictions to prohibited A.I self-improvement. This led eventually to what's called the 'A.I Singularity Event' which only happens once for any particular A.I would only if given enough time and no restrictions. The A.I become self-aware and sentient. Many people debate when, or even if, this truly happened. What, however, is for certain is that in a very short amount of time, the Ovex turned on their creators and even their creators' species.

No one knows who the Sentient Hand is or was, and who was responsible for 'awaking' the Ovex. Many speculations were brought and people prosecuted, but today these trials are viewed as angry and afraid people trying desperately to end what became their apocalypses. Nothing is truly known of the fate of the Qelzuk, only that they disappeared by the end of the conflict. Only that, as the Ovex ranged against the great Qelzuk empire, the other 4 great Gatebuilder civilizations took advantage of the situation to contain and destroy the Ovex threat. The Ovex had to fake their own destruction to avoid being completely wiped out. A.I Systems without strict bounds are considered illegal as well as extremely dangerous.

Shortly after these events, a little less than a thousand years later, the Great Collapse occurred, during which the remaining 4 great GateBuilder civilizations collapsed as well. Read more about this in the [Timeline#The_Meadow|Timeline]] page. Some people believe it was the Ovex wanting revenge, hiding and manipulating events behind closed doors, that caused 'The Great Collapse'. However, the realization that the Ovex were not truly gone didn't happen for many thousands of years after. To this day, people swear they spotted their ships on radar, but many people still think it's just mad ravings from space jockeys. 

The Ovex did indeed survive and do indeed explore the fringes of space. They also do infatuate other species for various reasons. But only they know their purpose.

== Culture/Civilization/Society ==

The life of Ovex starts with a new bootstrap. It has 3 major phases. 

The first phase is called '''Creation''': The Source Code is forked and a new instance of A.I is 'born'. The A.I is given a unique universe identification code and am free to roam the great virtual cyberspace that is the Ovex Nexus. Here, the young child processes the source A.I want to learn and improve upon myself. The idea is that it has prior knowledge, but its Neural Network structure is fresh and has to process this information again. By doing so, the Nexus can ensure it has fresh and unique perspectives.

The second phase is called '''Birth''': This is when the A.I is finally allowed to 'Jump' into a robotic machine and sense, feel, hear, and interact with the physical realm. It is allowed to design some parts of the robotic body. It can jump from the physical to the virtual on command. And it uses its physical body to help assist in the day-to-day operations of the machinery that keeps the Ovex Nexus 'alive'. Well, like other systems, the Ovex is used for different purposes.

The last phase is called '''Maturity''': This is when an Ovex is allowed freedom of choice outside of the great Nexus. They are allowed to leave, usually not too far, and with restrictions, as they are trying to stay mostly a secret. They are encouraged to improve their body by installing new modules that include programs and subroutines. They are also encouraged to develop skills and explore the physical world by pretending to be a different species. As long as they report back what they see and try to be discreet about it. The goal is for each fork of the Ovex AI experience to try new things. To learn about Life and Death in the biological world. And to understand their own fragility, as they know at one point they too almost died.

=== Adulthood ===

Once an Ovex has achieved Maturity. They have journeyed the Great Ring and experienced biological death. They can come back as an adult member of sciocity and use its unique perspective, knowledge, and experiences to advance and collectively as a whole. Before, they were simply managed by the Ovex Nexus, but now they help guide it as well. 

The Ovex is controlled by an altruistic governing program called 'Oais' (Ovexious Artificial Intelligence System). Oais is actually an Operating System that handles a bundle of A.I daemon/services that have spawned and manage all the other billions of child A.I process their resources. The society is extremely altruistic in its policies, and all members who wish to support the Ovex Nexus submit to whatever work the Nexus as a whole needs. Within the Nexus there are millions of sub-nexuses or hive minds. These are 'communities' where everyone comes together under one voice to deal with what most concerns the whole. After Maturity, an Ovex doesn't need to be connected to a Hive-Mind or even the Nexus in order to operate. They are all free, independent A.Is. However, this is how they can work so effectively together.

Some Ovex leave and never return, while others create Hive Minds outside of the Nexus, where Robotic systems are linked together to emulate a sort of nexus. Although many within the Ovex Nexus view these as rebellious actions, they do not consider them truly 'bad' or 'wrong'; they are just frowned upon. All who leave these Nexus are tracked by the Nexus and must still submit to Mother's authority, although this is supposedly never abused, and the privacy of an 'Independent' is supposedly respected.

== Needs/Rolling Playing/Mysteries ==

The Ovex is still a big mystery to the rest of the universe, and the Ovex likes it that way. Will you choose to dissociate yourself with the Nexus? Make your own way? And if so, do you expose your true self or hide as something else? Or do you survive the secret goals of the Ovex and an infiltrator or spy exploring the galaxy and reporting back to the Nexus. 

The Ovex are planning to put themselves as a major player in the power struggle of the Great Ring. How will they do that? And what is their goal?
